docs - admin data model (#27648)
metabase/metabase: docs/data-modeling/admin-data-model.md

---
title: "Data modeling for admins"
redirect_from:
  - /docs/latest/administration-guide/03-metadata-editing
---

> # Data modeling for admins

Author: Thoughts on alternative titles for this page? 

I think "metadata editing" might be too abstract (compared to the name of the page in the product, as well as the task of managing metadata itself). 

The Admin Data Model feels more closely related to business logic (semantic data models) than traditional "data modelling" (performant data models). 

You need metadata for both types of modelling (like data types), but the use cases are very different. I've tried to make that clearer in this doc, but I think the title and descriptions could still use some work (as well as the connective bits in other docs).

Let's say you're counting active users. Do you use "count of users", "user count", or "distinct users"? Should we present those counts as "10,000", "10K", or "10000"? And what does "active" really mean, anyway?

When you're [pushing and pulling data](https://www.metabase.com/learn/analytics/push-and-pull) between different teams, you're bound to run into different names, formats, and definitions for the same thing. Enter the **Admin Data Model**: a tiny command centre for all of the business logic living in your Metabase. Don't let the power get to your head.

> ## Quick start

Reviewer: This heading shouldn't exist, and the list should kick off the doc (see my notes in the main comment).

To start creating a source of truth for your business logic, go to the **Data Model** tab in your **Admin settings**. If you've got more than one database connected to Metabase, click on the database name (for example, "Sample Database") and select another database from the dropdown menu.

You'll find a playground of knobs and buttons that'll let you:

- Set display names and descriptions for [tables](#table-display-name) and [columns](#column-name).
- Hide outdated or irrelevant [tables](#table-visibility) and [columns](#column-visibility).
- [Cast a text or number column to a date column](#casting-to-a-specific-data-type) (so you can use the column in datetime expressions, and so on).
- [Change a filter widget](#changing-the-filter-widget) (for example, from a [search box to a dropdown](#changing-a-search-box-filter-to-a-dropdown-filter)).
- [Link column values to URLs](#linking-a-column-to-a-url).
- [Refresh or clear cached filter values](#refresh-or-discard-cached-values).
- Set up reusable [segments and metrics](./segments-and-metrics.md).

> None of the settings in the **Data Model** will affect your database.

Reviewer: Worth it to move this note up? Or even make it a block quote? And maybe one more clause to explain that the changes only affect how Metabase understands and displays the data.

## Table settings

Once you select a database, the tables in that database will appear in the sidebar. Click on a table name to view the table's settings in Metabase:

> - [Change the display name](#table-display-name)

Reviewer: I like these in-page tables of contents. Great for navigation.

|-----------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Everywhere            | ✅                                                          | ✅                                                       | ✅                                                                        | 
| Only in detail views  | ✅                                                          | ✅                                                       | ✅                                                                        | 
| Do not include        | ❌                                                          | ✅                                                       | ❌                                                                        | 

**Only in detail views** will hide lengthy text from question results. This setting is applied by default if a column's values have an average length of more than 50 characters. You might want to use this setting on a column like "Comments" if you already have a column for "Rating".

> **Do not include** columns won't show up in the query builder or data reference, but they're still accessible if someone writes `SELECT hidden_column FROM table` in the SQL editor. You can use this setting on sensitive columns (such as PII) or irrelevant columns (such as the last updated time).

Reviewer: > **Do not include** columns won't show up in the query builder or data reference.

The word "exclude" is nonexistent.

- **Database.** (Default) The order of columns as they appear in the database.
- **Alphabetical.** A, B, C... however the alphabet works.
- **Custom.** You choose the order. Metabase will automatically switch the sort order to "Custom" if you rearrange any of the columns.
- **Smart.** Metabase chooses for you.

### Field type

[Field types](../data-modeling/field-types.md) help Metabase suggest the right display options for your data, such as the map visualization for "Longitude" and "Latitude" columns.

To change the field type of a column, click on the **Type** dropdown menu in a column's setting box. You can also use the **Type** menu to label a column as an [entity key](https://www.metabase.com/glossary/entity_key) (primary key) or [foreign key](https://www.metabase.com/glossary/foreign_key) in Metabase (with no consequence to your database). 

Primary keys and foreign keys show up in the [data reference](../exploration-and-organization/data-model-reference.md#connections) to help people identify unique records and create [joins](../questions/query-builder/join.md).

### Casting to a specific data type

> Use this setting if you want Metabase to interpret a text or number column as a datetime data type (for example, if you want to change a filter picker to a calendar style). Casting won't affect the original data types in your database. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want Metabase to interpret a text or number column as a datetime data type (for example, if you want to change a filter picker to a calendar style). Like all data model settings, casting types in Metabase won't affect the original data types in your database. 
```

3. In the column's settings box, set **Type** to “Category”.
4. Set **Filtering on this field** to “A list of all values".

When you change a search box filter to a dropdown filter, you'll trigger a query against your database to get the first 1,000 distinct values (ordered ascending) for that column. Metabase will cache the first 100kB of text to display in the dropdown menu. If you have columns with more than 1,000 distinct values, or columns with text-heavy data, we recommend setting **Filtering on this field** to "Search box" instead. For more info, see [How database scans work](../databases/connecting.md#how-database-scans-work).

### Linking a column to a URL

1. [Find your database and table](#quick-start).
2. Click on the **gear** icon at the right of a column's settings box.
3. Select **Formatting** from the sidebar.
4. From **Display as**, select **Link**.
5. Optional: set display text under **Link text**.
6. Enter the URL in the **Link URL** field.
7. Optional: create a dynamic URL by adding the column name as a `{{ parameter }}`.

For example, if you set the **Link URL** for an "Adjective" column to:

```
https://www.google.com/search?q={{adjective}}
```

> When someone clicks on the value "askew" in the "Adjective" column, they'll be taken to the Google search URL:

Reviewer: A fine example here, Nat.

```
https://www.google.com/search?q=askew
```

## Refresh or discard cached values

> To update the values in your filter dropdown menus, you'll need to refresh or reset the cached values. You should avoid doing this for an entire table at once, because [scans](../databases/connecting.md#how-database-scans-work) can slow down your database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update the values in your filter dropdown menus, refresh or reset the cached values.
```

**Cache actions**:

> - **Re-scan this table** to run a manual scan for new or updated column values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Re-scan this table** to run a manual scan for new or updated column values. If possible, re-scan the table during off-peak hours, as [scans](../databases/connecting.md#how-database-scans-work) can slow down your database.
```
Does this relocation and revision make the consequences more clear?
